README.md, before:

# GoESI "Go Easy" API client for esi

An OpenAPI for EVE Online ESI API

## Overview
A module to allow access to CCP's EVE Online ESI API.
This module offers:
* Versioned Endpoints
* OAuth2 authentication to login.eveonline.com
* Handle many tokens, with different scopes.
* 100% ESI API coverage.
* context.Context passthrough (for httptrace, logging, etc).
* Some CREST and XMLAPI coverage (feel free to submit PR requests for other endpoints).

## Installation
```
    go get github.com/antihax/goesi
```

## New Client
```
  client := goesi.NewAPIClient(&http.Client, "MyApp (someone@somewhere.com dude on slack)")
```
One client should be created that will serve as an agent for all requests. This allows http2 multiplexing and keep-alive be used to optimize connections.
It is also good manners to provide a user-agent describing the point of use of the API, allowing CCP to contact you in case of emergencies.

Example
```
  client := goesi.NewAPIClient(context.Background(), "my esi client http://mysite.com contact <SomeDude> ingame")
  result, response, err := client.V#.Endpoint.Operation(requestContext, requiredParam, map[string]interface{} { 
                                                                        "optionalParam1": "stringParam",
                                                                        "optionalParam2": 1234.56
                                                                    })
```

## Etiquette 
* Create a descriptive user agent so CCP can contact you (preferably on devfleet slack).
* Obey Cache Timers.
* Obey error rate limits: https://developers.eveonline.com/blog/article/error-limiting-imminent

## Obeying the Cache Times
Caching is not implimented by the client and thus it is required to utilize
a caching http client. It is highly recommended to utilize a client capable
of caching the entire cluster of API clients.

An example using gregjones/httpcache and memcache:
```
	import (
		"github.com/bradfitz/gomemcache/memcache"
		"github.com/gregjones/httpcache"
		httpmemcache "github.com/gregjones/httpcache/memcache"
	)

	func main() {
		// Connect to the memcache server
		cache := memcache.New(MemcachedAddresses...)

		// Create a memcached http client for the CCP APIs.
		transport := httpcache.NewTransport(httpmemcache.NewWithClient(cache))
		transport.Transport = &http.Transport{Proxy: http.ProxyFromEnvironment}
		client = &http.Client{Transport: transport}

		// Get our API Client.
		eve := goesi.NewAPIClient(client, "My user agent, contact somewhere@nowhere")
	}
```

## Authenticating
Register your application at https://developers.eveonline.com/ to get your secretKey, clientID, and scopes.

Obtaining tokens for client requires two HTTP handlers. One to generate and redirect
to the SSO URL, and one to receive the response.

It is mandatory to create a random state and compare this state on return to prevent token injection attacks on the application.

pseudocode example:
```

  func main() {
    var err error
    ctx := appContext.AppContext{}
    ctx.ESI = goesi.NewAPIClient(httpClient, "My App, contact someone@nowhere")
    ctx.SSOAuthenticator = goesi.NewSSOAuthenticator(httpClient, clientID, secretKey, scopes)
  }

	func eveSSO(c *appContext.AppContext, w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request,
		s *sessions.Session) (int, error) {

		// Generate a random state string
		b := make([]byte, 16)
		rand.Read(b)
		state := base64.URLEncoding.EncodeToString(b)

		// Save the state on the session
		s.Values["state"] = state
		err := s.Save(r, w)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Generate the SSO URL with the state string
		url := c.SSOAuthenticator.AuthorizeURL(state, true)

		// Send the user to the URL
		http.Redirect(w, r, url, 302)
		return http.StatusMovedPermanently, nil
	}

	func eveSSOAnswer(c *appContext.AppContext, w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request,
		s *sessions.Session) (int, error) {

		// get our code and state
		code := r.FormValue("code")
		state := r.FormValue("state")

		// Verify the state matches our randomly generated string from earlier.
		if s.Values["state"] != state {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, errors.New("Invalid State.")
		}

		// Exchange the code for an Access and Refresh token.
		token, err := c.SSOAuthenticator.TokenExchange(code)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Obtain a token source (automaticlly pulls refresh as needed)
		tokSrc, err := c.SSOAuthenticator.TokenSource(tok)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Assign an auth context to the calls
		auth := context.WithValue(context.TODO(), goesi.ContextOAuth2, tokSrc.Token)

		// Verify the client (returns clientID)
		v, err := c.SSOAuthenticator.Verify(auth)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Save the verification structure on the session for quick access.
		s.Values["character"] = v
		err = s.Save(r, w)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Redirect to the account page.
		http.Redirect(w, r, "/account", 302)
		return http.StatusMovedPermanently, nil
	}
```

## Passing Tokens
OAuth2 tokens are passed to endpoings via contexts. Example:
```
	ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), goesi.ContextOAuth2, ESIPublicToken)
	struc, response, err := client.V1.UniverseApi.GetUniverseStructuresStructureId(ctx, structureID, nil)
```

This is done here rather than at the client so you can use one client for many tokens, saving connections.

## Testing
If you would rather not rely on public ESI for testing, a mock ESI server is available for local and CI use.
Information here: https://github.com/antihax/mock-esi

## What about the other stuff?
If you need bleeding edge access, add the endpoint to the generator and rebuild this module. 
Generator is here: https://github.com/antihax/swagger-esi-goclient

## Documentation for API Endpoints
[ESI Endpoints](./esi/README.md)

## Author
  antihax on #devfleet slack

## Credits
https://github.com/go-resty/resty (MIT license) Copyright Â© 2015-2016 Jeevanandam M (jeeva@myjeeva.com)
 - Uses modified setBody and detectContentType

https://github.com/gregjones/httpcache (MIT license) Copyright Â© 2012 Greg Jones (greg.jones@gmail.com)
  - Uses parseCacheControl and CacheExpires as a helper function

Commit message:

modified readme + add docs directory

README.md, after:

# GoESI "Go Easy" API client for esi

An OpenAPI for EVE Online ESI API

## Overview
A module to allow access to CCP's EVE Online ESI API.
This module is a fork of antihax version [https://github.com/antihax/goesi](https://github.com/antihax/goesi),
modified to compile on Windows system,
and float32 replaced by float64, to gain currency precision.

This module offers:
* Versioned Endpoints
* OAuth2 authentication to login.eveonline.com
* Handle many tokens, with different scopes.
* 100% ESI API coverage.
* context.Context passthrough (for httptrace, logging, etc).
* Some CREST and XMLAPI coverage (feel free to submit PR requests for other endpoints).

## Installation
```
    go get github.com/evemarco/goesi
```

## New Client
```
  client := goesi.NewAPIClient(&http.Client, "MyApp (someone@somewhere.com dude on slack)")
```
One client should be created that will serve as an agent for all requests. This allows http2 multiplexing and keep-alive be used to optimize connections.
It is also good manners to provide a user-agent describing the point of use of the API, allowing CCP to contact you in case of emergencies.

Example
```
  client := goesi.NewAPIClient(context.Background(), "my esi client http://mysite.com contact <SomeDude> ingame")
  result, response, err := client.V#.Endpoint.Operation(requestContext, requiredParam, map[string]interface{} { 
                                                                        "optionalParam1": "stringParam",
                                                                        "optionalParam2": 1234.56
                                                                    })
```

## Etiquette 
* Create a descriptive user agent so CCP can contact you (preferably on devfleet slack).
* Obey Cache Timers.
* Obey error rate limits: https://developers.eveonline.com/blog/article/error-limiting-imminent

## Obeying the Cache Times
Caching is not implimented by the client and thus it is required to utilize
a caching http client. It is highly recommended to utilize a client capable
of caching the entire cluster of API clients.

An example using gregjones/httpcache and memcache:
```
	import (
		"github.com/bradfitz/gomemcache/memcache"
		"github.com/gregjones/httpcache"
		httpmemcache "github.com/gregjones/httpcache/memcache"
	)

	func main() {
		// Connect to the memcache server
		cache := memcache.New(MemcachedAddresses...)

		// Create a memcached http client for the CCP APIs.
		transport := httpcache.NewTransport(httpmemcache.NewWithClient(cache))
		transport.Transport = &http.Transport{Proxy: http.ProxyFromEnvironment}
		client = &http.Client{Transport: transport}

		// Get our API Client.
		eve := goesi.NewAPIClient(client, "My user agent, contact somewhere@nowhere")
	}
```

## Authenticating
Register your application at https://developers.eveonline.com/ to get your secretKey, clientID, and scopes.

Obtaining tokens for client requires two HTTP handlers. One to generate and redirect
to the SSO URL, and one to receive the response.

It is mandatory to create a random state and compare this state on return to prevent token injection attacks on the application.

pseudocode example:
```

  func main() {
    var err error
    ctx := appContext.AppContext{}
    ctx.ESI = goesi.NewAPIClient(httpClient, "My App, contact someone@nowhere")
    ctx.SSOAuthenticator = goesi.NewSSOAuthenticator(httpClient, clientID, secretKey, scopes)
  }

	func eveSSO(c *appContext.AppContext, w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request,
		s *sessions.Session) (int, error) {

		// Generate a random state string
		b := make([]byte, 16)
		rand.Read(b)
		state := base64.URLEncoding.EncodeToString(b)

		// Save the state on the session
		s.Values["state"] = state
		err := s.Save(r, w)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Generate the SSO URL with the state string
		url := c.SSOAuthenticator.AuthorizeURL(state, true)

		// Send the user to the URL
		http.Redirect(w, r, url, 302)
		return http.StatusMovedPermanently, nil
	}

	func eveSSOAnswer(c *appContext.AppContext, w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request,
		s *sessions.Session) (int, error) {

		// get our code and state
		code := r.FormValue("code")
		state := r.FormValue("state")

		// Verify the state matches our randomly generated string from earlier.
		if s.Values["state"] != state {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, errors.New("Invalid State.")
		}

		// Exchange the code for an Access and Refresh token.
		token, err := c.SSOAuthenticator.TokenExchange(code)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Obtain a token source (automaticlly pulls refresh as needed)
		tokSrc, err := c.SSOAuthenticator.TokenSource(tok)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Assign an auth context to the calls
		auth := context.WithValue(context.TODO(), goesi.ContextOAuth2, tokSrc.Token)

		// Verify the client (returns clientID)
		v, err := c.SSOAuthenticator.Verify(auth)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Save the verification structure on the session for quick access.
		s.Values["character"] = v
		err = s.Save(r, w)
		if err != nil {
			return http.StatusInternalServerError, err
		}

		// Redirect to the account page.
		http.Redirect(w, r, "/account", 302)
		return http.StatusMovedPermanently, nil
	}
```

## Passing Tokens
OAuth2 tokens are passed to endpoings via contexts. Example:
```
	ctx := context.WithValue(context.Background(), goesi.ContextOAuth2, ESIPublicToken)
	struc, response, err := client.V1.UniverseApi.GetUniverseStructuresStructureId(ctx, structureID, nil)
```

This is done here rather than at the client so you can use one client for many tokens, saving connections.

## Testing
If you would rather not rely on public ESI for testing, a mock ESI server is available for local and CI use.
Information here: https://github.com/antihax/mock-esi

## What about the other stuff?
If you need bleeding edge access, add the endpoint to the generator and rebuild this module. 
Generator is here: https://github.com/antihax/swagger-esi-goclient

## Documentation for API Endpoints
[ESI Endpoints](./esi/README.md)

## Author
  antihax on #devfleet slack
  corrected by evemarco

## Credits
https://github.com/go-resty/resty (MIT license) Copyright Â© 2015-2016 Jeevanandam M (jeeva@myjeeva.com)
 - Uses modified setBody and detectContentType

https://github.com/gregjones/httpcache (MIT license) Copyright Â© 2012 Greg Jones (greg.jones@gmail.com)
  - Uses parseCacheControl and CacheExpires as a helper function
